# Decentralized Exchanges

## What is a DEX?

A decentralized exchange, or DEX, is a web3 native marketplace where users can trade crypto without the need for a centralized intermediary. Since DEXs are native to web3, all trades occur between crypto pairs. Unlike centralized exchanges which record transactions on private databases, decentralized exchanges record transactions directly on a blockchain. This means users maintain full custody of their crypto while trading on a decentralized exchange, and don’t have to trust a third party with their assets. While decentralized exchanges are still catching up to centralized exchanges in terms of ease of use, they provide several advantages for users.

<br>

## Advantages of DEXs

:::: tabs

::: tab Accessibility

### Accessibility

****

While centralized exchanges usually restrict access to users in certain jurisdictions who meet criteria, anyone with a [crypto wallet](/users/getting-started/creating-wallet) can access and trade on a decentralized exchange without the need to submit a KYC and be granted permission by a single entity.

:::

::: tab Security

### Security

****

When users trade crypto on a decentralized exchange the assets are stored directly within their own wallets, therefore DEX users don’t need to rely on a centralized entity to keep their crypto safe.

:::

::: tab Trading Fees

### Trading Fees

****

Since no single party owns a decentralized exchange and trades are executed via smart contracts, trading fees are usually lower when compared to centralized exchanges.

:::

::: tab Profit Sharing

### Profit Sharing

****

Decentralized exchanges allow anyone to deposit assets into a “liquidity pool” in order to provide liquidity and start earning a portion of trading fees. As users provide more liquidity to a pool they earn a greater portion of the total fees being generated by the pool.

:::

::: tab Optionality

### Optionality

****

While centralized exchanges pick and choose which assets their users can trade, DEXs are permissionless. This means that anyone can list a token on a decentralized exchange, and users have access to a wider variety of assets. Since anyone can list an asset on a decentralized exchange, it’s important for users to do proper due diligence before purchasing a new asset.

:::

::::

<br>

## Learn More

> [Learn how to use a DEX here](/users/getting-started/funding-wallet.html#trading-cosmos-assets-on-a-decentralized-exchange).